README.md, before:

# A Metric Learning Approach to Misogyny Categorization

This is the companion repository for the paper "A Metric Learning Approach to Misogyny Categorization", published at the [5th Workshop on Representation Learning for NLP (RepL4NLP)](https://sites.google.com/view/repl4nlp2020/home) at ACL 2020.

The project contains all the code needed to run the experiments.

## Installation

We recommend you first install PyTorch as described in the [official website](https://pytorch.org/) according to your hardware capabilities, making sure the version is at least 1.4.0 (ideally you should install exactly this version to avoid any compatibility issues).

1. Clone the repository and `cd MetricAMI`
2. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Prepare the Dataset

1. Obtain the official Evalita 2018 AMI dataset from [here](https://github.com/evalita2018/data/tree/master/AMI)
2. Run the preparation script to pre-tokenize the data and split the training set into train and dev:

```shell
python prepare.py --path <AMI_PATH> --out <OUTPUT_PATH>
```

where `<AMI_PATH>` is the directory containing `en_training.tsv` and `en_testing.tsv`, and `<OUTPUT_PATH>` any directory to put the preprocessed data with `en` as the last directory.

Notice that the vocabulary will also be generated by this script.

At this point you should have a directory tree like this:
```
- <NEW_AMI_PATH>/
  - en/
    - train/
    - dev/
    - test/
    - ami_vocab.txt
```

## Train an LSTM Model

To train this model you will need the generated vocabulary as well as a GENSIM `KeyedVectors` dump (soon to be uploaded).
You can of course train any of the other loss functions in a similar manner by modifying the parameters (see [here](args.py) for the parameter list and description).

```shell
python train.py \
       --path <NEW_AMI_PATH> \
       --vocab /path/to/ami_vocab.txt \
       --word2vec-model word_embeddings/Cbowwiki_en_data_iter5_vec_size_300 \
       --epochs 60 --save --batch-size 32 --log-interval 50 \
       --model lstm --loss softmax --lr 1e-3 \
       --exp-path <EXPERIMENT_PATH>
```

## Train a BERT Model

Training BERT is easier thanks to the Huggingface library.
As with the LSTM, any other loss function from the paper can also be trained (see [here](args.py)).

```shell
python train.py \
       --path <NEW_AMI_PATH> \
       --epochs 60 --save --batch-size 32 --log-interval 50 \
       --model bert --loss softmax --lr 1e-5 \
       --exp-path <EXPERIMENT_PATH>
```

## Results

Our results show that none of the considered losses can outperform the regular cross entropy, and we outperform the Evalita 2018 winner with our BERT model.

<p align="center">
  <img src="ami_results.png" width="520">
</p>

A more detailed analysis of the results can be found in the paper.

## Citation

If our work has been useful to you, please cite our paper:

```bibtex
To be added soon!
```

Commit message:

Add CBOW Wikipedia word embeddings dump for AMI. Update README.md

README.md, after:

# A Metric Learning Approach to Misogyny Categorization

This is the companion repository for the paper "A Metric Learning Approach to Misogyny Categorization", published at the [5th Workshop on Representation Learning for NLP (RepL4NLP)](https://sites.google.com/view/repl4nlp2020/home) at ACL 2020.

The project contains all the code needed to run the experiments.

## Installation

We recommend you first install PyTorch as described in the [official website](https://pytorch.org/) according to your hardware capabilities, making sure the version is at least 1.4.0 (ideally you should install exactly this version to avoid any compatibility issues).

1. Clone the repository and `cd MetricAMI`
2. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Prepare the Dataset

1. Obtain the official Evalita 2018 AMI dataset from [here](https://github.com/evalita2018/data/tree/master/AMI)
2. Run the preparation script to pre-tokenize the data and split the training set into train and dev:

```shell
python prepare.py --path <AMI_PATH> --out <OUTPUT_PATH>
```

where `<AMI_PATH>` is the directory containing `en_training.tsv` and `en_testing.tsv`, and `<OUTPUT_PATH>` any directory to put the preprocessed data with `en` as the last directory.

Notice that the vocabulary will also be generated by this script.

At this point you should have a directory tree like this:
```
- <NEW_AMI_PATH>/
  - en/
    - train/
    - dev/
    - test/
    - ami_vocab.txt
```

## Train an LSTM Model

To train this model you will need the generated vocabulary as well as a GENSIM `KeyedVectors` dump of CBOW Wikipedia word embeddings (included in this repo).
You can of course train any of the other loss functions in a similar manner by modifying the parameters (see [here](args.py) for the parameter list and description).

```shell
python train.py \
       --path <NEW_AMI_PATH> \
       --vocab /path/to/ami_vocab.txt \
       --word2vec-model word_embeddings/ami2vec.kv \
       --epochs 60 --save --batch-size 32 --log-interval 50 \
       --model lstm --loss softmax --lr 1e-3 \
       --exp-path <EXPERIMENT_PATH>
```

This model will need around 700Mb of GPU RAM.

## Train a BERT Model

Training BERT is easier thanks to the Huggingface library.
As with the LSTM, any other loss function from the paper can also be trained (see [here](args.py)).

```shell
python train.py \
       --path <NEW_AMI_PATH> \
       --epochs 60 --save --batch-size 32 --log-interval 50 \
       --model bert --loss softmax --lr 1e-5 \
       --exp-path <EXPERIMENT_PATH>
```

BERT will need around 4.5Gb of GPU RAM.

## Results

Our results show that none of the considered losses can outperform the regular cross entropy, and we outperform the Evalita 2018 winner with our fine-tuned BERT model.

<p align="center">
  <img src="ami_results.png" width="520">
</p>

A detailed analysis of the results can be found in the paper.

## Citation

If our work has been useful to you, please cite our paper:

```bibtex
To be added soon!
```
